+++
path = "inside-rust/2025/09/04/leadership-council-update"
title = "September 2025 Leadership Council Update"
authors = ["Eric Huss"]

[extra]
team = "Leadership Council"
team_url = "https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/leadership-council"
+++

Hello again from the Rust Leadership Council!
We wanted to share an update on what the Council has been working on since [our last update][update].

[update]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2025/06/11/leadership-council-update/

## Accomplishments so far

### Content team

[@PLeVasseur](https://github.com/PLeVasseur) and [@traviscross](https://github.com/traviscross/) created the [Content team](https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/launching-pad#team-content) ([leadership-council#206](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/206)). The team is responsible for creating content that is of interest and benefit to the Rust Project and its community. This potentially includes blog posts, videos, podcasts, and other forms. The team will be talking with experts within the Project and the community to share their knowledge and experience using Rust.

We are looking forward to what they create, which should be shared soon.

### All-hands 2026

The Council approved to schedule the 2026 All-Hands event ([leadership-council#192](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/192)). This event is an opportunity for Project members to meet in person to to collaborate on the future of Rust. The event is scheduled to occur again with [RustWeek 2026](https://2026.rustweek.org/) in The Netherlands on May 21-23. More information will be coming soon.

### Additional items

And a few other items:

- Coordinated with the mods team on the creation of the venue mods team, which is responsible for moderating venues such as GitHub and Zulip. [team#1874](https://github.com/rust-lang/team/pull/1874)
- Approved the renewal of the compiler ops contract. [leadership-council#181](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/181)
- Approved substitutes for the July and August Foundation board meetings. [leadership-council#187](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/187) [leadership-council#194](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/194) [leadership-council#201](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/201)
- Coordinated with the RustConf organizers on how to distribute free or reduced-price tickets for project members. [leadership-council#190](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/190)
- Added [@jieyouxu](https://github.com/jieyouxu) to the team-repo-admins, who are responsible for updating the Rust team memberships and resources. [leadership-council#205](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/205)
- Coordinated with the infra team to set up the email alias for `contact@rust-lang.org` as the contact address of the rust-lang GitHub organization. [leadership-council#202](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/202)
- Coordinated with the social media team to approve the creation of an official LinkedIn page for Rust, now up at <https://www.linkedin.com/company/rust-lang/>. [leadership-council#208](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/208)
- Approved a travel grant for [@tomassedovic](https://github.com/tomassedovic) to go to [Kangrejos 2025](https://kangrejos.com/), the Rust for Linux Workshop. [leadership-council#217](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/217)

## Ongoing work

There are various efforts underway on projects that have had significant discussions since the last update, but have not concluded with any decisions, yet.
They are:

### Shape of Rust

[@JamesMunns](https://github.com/jamesmunns) has continued to develop the concept of the "Rust Society". The Rust Society will be an organizational structure for user groups (commonly called "Special Interest Groups", "Working Groups", etc. in other organizations) outside of the Rust Project, but administrated by the Rust Project via a new "T-Society-Admins" subteam of the Launching Pad.

This structure is intended to be the long-term home for existing Domain Working Groups, which will be retired as a concept after this work is complete. In the future, this structure intends to offer "open enrollment" for any interested group of users.

See the latest [proposed charter](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159#issuecomment-3237633417) for how the Rust Society will function.

### Foundation

There have been continual discussions with the Foundation on various topics. We are excited to welcome [@LoriLorusso](https://github.com/LoriLorusso), who just started as the Foundation's new [Director of Outreach](https://rustfoundation.org/media/welcoming-lori-lorusso-the-rust-foundations-new-director-of-outreach/). She has hit the ground running, and has been helping with coordinating with the Foundation and planning upcoming projects.

We have been discussing with the Foundation the possibilities of providing a budget for [project priorities](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/183) in 2026. The funding provided by Microsoft in 2024 is nearly spent, and we are looking for ways that we can continue some of the projects afforded by that grant, such as the travel grants, all-hands support, project grants, and the contracted positions.

We discussed the condition of the travel grant budget of 2025 ([leadership-council#182](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/182)). Many project members used most of their $2,000 limit during the all-hands earlier this year, and we had concerns that members would not be able to attend other events like RustConf. Ultimately we decided to keep with the current policy, and will be working on figuring out what our possible option might be for funding 2026.

Finally, on the top of our minds is the [Foundation three-year strategy](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/197). We have a keen interest in working with the Foundation staff to ensure that we are all focusing on the best objectives for the Rust project. We hope to share more on this soon.

### Additional items

- We have been discussing a policy for better management of the alumni status of project members. [leadership-council#218](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/218) [leadership-council#175](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/175)
- We had some discussions on who is responsible for how stable and unstable features relate to the stable releases. [leadership-council#180](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/180)
- The September 2025 council elections have started. [leadership-council#211](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/211)
- The 2025 Foundation director elections have started. [@tomassedovic](https://github.com/tomassedovic) will be facilitating this year. <https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2025/08/20/electing-new-project-directors-2025/>
- We launched the [2025 Leadership Council Survey](https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2025/06/30/2025-leadership-council-survey/), and will be posting the results soon.

## Meeting minutes

We publish minutes from all Council meetings to the [Leadership Council repo][minutes].
Links to the minutes since our last update are:

* [June 6, 2025](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/minutes/sync-meeting/2025-06-06.md)
* [June 20, 2025](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/minutes/sync-meeting/2025-06-20.md)
* [July 4, 2025](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/minutes/sync-meeting/2025-07-04.md)
* [July 18, 2025](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/minutes/sync-meeting/2025-07-18.md)
* [August 8, 2025](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/minutes/sync-meeting/2025-08-08.md)
* [August 15, 2025](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/minutes/sync-meeting/2025-08-15.md)

[minutes]: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/tree/main/minutes
